Recently I have been getting really into the artworks of Vincent Van Gogh. I never understood how a man that was spiraling mentally was able to create such simplistic and almost ordinary paintings. You would never expect that a painting of a landscape, or arguably the most famous painting of all time, Starry Night, being made by a bipolar man who cut off his ear in one of his manic episodes. In his last 70 days, Van Gogh painted 70 paintings before commiting suicide, after losing his battle with mental illlness. These paintings gave him sustenance, as in his last 70 days he seemingly returned to a positive mental state, where he became encapsulated with his surroundings. Although a quick glance at his paintings would never reveal any of the inner turmoil he faced, a more open and emotional examination would allow the viewer to see how the swirls in Starry Night create a sense of wonder and loneliness, instead of just labeling them as lines in the sky. 


Since I have mentioned Starry Night a couple of times now, I decided that it should be the first we talk about. Starry Night was made in June 1889, and created presumably to depict the vastness of the universe and the mind. He was able to use "Impasto", a technique where thick paint is applied to a canvas to create texture and to dramatize the shapes of the brushstroke that were left imprinted. The use of the impasto technique also created movement within the painting. The swirling brushstrokes furthermore dramatized the painting, adding more tension to it. The use of bold colors like white, yellow, and light blue created major contrast in the painting, drawing attention, and creating emphasis. The church in the painting could represent his faith in god, the same faith that had affected his early career as an artist. The most emphasized symbol in the painting is a Cypress tree, covering nearly a quarter of the painting. Although it is such a massive symbol, it is often overlooked as many people don't understand what it even is, or what it even means. The cypress tree has symbolized the transition between life or death for centuries in European culture. Including this symbol in the painting furthermore symbolized the disturbance in Van Gogh's life. 

Another painting I want to talk about is "The Potato Eaters". This painting has lots of dark tones, which were originally criticized by viewers and other artists. Even though it faced criticism, it was an important artwork for Van Gogh's early career. By showcasing his realism skills and including the harsh lives of peasants in the Netherlands, the painting grew in popularity becoming a key work in his time period. By using muted and dark colors, Van Gogh was able to showcase the laborious lifestyle peasants went through daily. By creating this artwork, Van Gogh was able to show his sympathy for the peasants as he painted the harsh reality of country life. This could lead to a connection with his battle with mental illness. Maybe Van Gogh was able to see his struggles within the poor working class, and displace the negative emotions he felt onto another scene in a painting.